it's one of my long-term goals to visit
Toastmasters clubs all over the world
and I recently had the chance to take a
first step toward that when I visited a
Toastmasters Club in the Middle Eastern
country of Bahrain I want to start this
video by saying if you are a resident of
the Persian Gulf country Bahrain or you
plan to visit there in the future
definitely check out buffering
Toastmasters Club because it's an
amazing Toastmasters Club and I'm
excited to share my experience with you
in this video and make sure you stay
until the end of this video because I
actually sang at this Toastmasters Club
not just spoke I sang and you're not
going to want to miss seeing that just
kidding you probably are going to want
to miss because it's incredibly
embarrassing on my part but that clip is
at the end of the video hey everyone my
name is Wade Patterson and my YouTube
channel is all about impactful
communication as well as Toastmasters
tricks tips advice on taking on roles
basically I want to help make you a
better Communicator so if that is one of
your goals or your targets please
consider subscribing to my channel turn
on notifications so you never miss a
video it really helps out my channel
every new subscriber I truly appreciate
so let's talk about this experience I
had at Bahrain Toastmasters Club first
off I was there on a trip with my wife
and a few friends visiting family
members and other friends and we also
happen to be there during the F1 opening
weekend which was an incredible
experience but while I was there I
tracked down different Toastmasters
clubs in the country and the one that
stood out to me was Bahrain Toastmasters
Club they meet every Tuesday evening at
Fraser Suites 7 30 to 9 30 PM as of the
time of recording this video that was
their schedule and the reason this club
caught my attention was because they
have a really strong presence on social
media and they're putting out updated
information I connected with their
Instagram saw that they had an upcoming
meeting that explained what the theme of
the meeting was going to be so I knew
this would be a great Club to attend so
this club was a little bit different in
terms of the agenda than what I'm used
to at my Kelowna am Toastmasters Club
our club meets for about an hour and 15
minutes this was a two hour meeting and
it started off with a few formalities
and then a fantastic address from the
Toastmasters president her name is
Fatima Al mahizia and she did an
incredible job bringing in the topic of
the meeting making the guests feel
welcome and teeing up the rest of the
meeting from there there were many
similar sections similar roles that I've
talked about in other videos on my
channel there was a grammarian who did
an introduction of course the all
counter the timer all of those roles but
they actually had a business section as
well which about was about 20 minutes
throughout the meeting and that was
something that was unique we don't have
that at our own Toastmasters Club we
have an executive club that meets
separately so it was interesting having
the business part of the Toastmasters
meeting as part of that agenda and there
was another unique thing that was
introduced by the Master of Ceremonies
or the Toastmaster of the day and that
was this trivia type contest and anyone
who got a question wrong or was on the
opposing team of the team that got the
question correct had to perform a task
they had to pull out a piece of paper
and do whatever the task said so there
was a lot of unique things that I
noticed with this Toastmasters Club but
a very solid structure and it was really
well done a little bit of history about
the club it was founded in 2002 by two
individual goals and one of those
individuals is a gentleman named Salman
alfardan and he is a continues to be a
regular Toastmaster who attends all of
the meetings he was there at the meeting
I attended and I'm going to give you a
little Glimpse I chatted to him after
the meeting just using my cell phone so
the video quality isn't perfect but
you'll get to hear a little bit about
why Salman and this other individual
founded the club and what the club means
to him so let's take a look everyone
Wade Patterson here I just attended
Bahrain Toastmasters Club meeting with
one of the founders here Salman alfardan
he is one of the founders from 2002 this
club was founded someone what can you
tell me about this Toastmasters Club
our club meets every Tuesday since it
started on 202.
we call it the house of champions
because a lot of Champions have
graduated from Lucy Club
our club
maintains the number of people in that
because we accept new members so we are
removed
all the time we renew our members and if
you look at our existing committee or
executive comments we are all in you
most of them have spent only a year or a
year and a half or two years and that
shows how open the club for
all the nationalities all ages over 18
from different places from University
from different discipline of work and we
are enjoying it people are grown here
and there are grown other people around
them absolutely and I can say firsthand
from attending one of these meetings the
quality is incredible not only from the
people who have been members for a long
time but new members as well so if
you're in Bahrain even if you're
visiting or if you live here and you're
wanting to check out Toastmasters
definitely check out the Bahrain
Toastmasters Club and you are all
welcome to join us as guess as members
we will be entertaining you and give you
all the opportunity to speak unto it
I also had the chance to chat with Club
president Fatima Al mahizia as well as
VP of Education Lou Jane al-wazan and
here is that conversation again with my
selfie video I had to talk to these
individuals because both of them are
incredible speakers they did a great job
in the meeting and I wanted to get their
perspectives hey everyone Wade Patterson
here and I am with Fatima and lejain of
buffering Toastmasters Club I just
attended one of their meetings which was
fantastic that's my you're president of
the club can you tell us a little bit
about buffering Toastmasters Club well
behind those monsters started all the
way back in 2002 and since that time
till today behind us Master kept
improving cup developing we have been
having people that actually started in
Bahrain Toastmaster and ended up joining
International competence and they
actually reached higher levels in their
competitions and that's the aim all of
us somewhere someday awesome and lejane
can you talk a little bit about I know
your VP of education but what brought
you to this Toastmasters Club and how
has it helped you so far okay so it's a
funny story my friend Aisha who is the
VP membership actually she pushed me
um to join I was hesitant at first
because I was nervous you know public
speaking is never easy
but I thought it would help me with just
life in general because we're always
speaking you know on our on a daily
basis so I just thought why not come and
just just try it so I joined and I
realized how how sweet people are here
and there's no it's like a judge-free
Zone you can say whatever whatever do
whatever and no one will judge you and
people just want you to do the best you
can possibly do so it's a very good
environment to thrive and to do better
so I encourage anyone around the world
to join those clubs everywhere and
everywhere I've checked there's one in
Glasgow or London everywhere so
definitely it's a really good experience
yeah and I can say firsthand from just
attending this meeting it is a fantastic
Club so if you're in the buffering area
if you're visiting if you're a resident
here you want to check out Toastmasters
this is the club to check out thank you
thank you for coming so much overall I
have to say I was blown away by the
quality of this club and its members
both long time members and newer members
Lou Jane who you just heard heard from
has only been part of that club for less
than a year and already she's really
amping up the club's social media
presence which is how I came across this
club in the first place and some of
their initiatives and as for Fatima she
delivered a speech during the meeting
and she's an incredible speaker her
vocal variety
Drew you in and she added all of these
really strategic pauses I'm telling you
now she has a bright future in terms of
public speaking because her speech was
powerful many of the club members you
could tell were very strong already
starting at a very high skill set and I
think that's a product of the club and
what they promote and the
professionalism going back to the
conversation with Salman at the meeting
I attended he was the General evaluator
and it was a long General evaluation
usually at my club in Kelowna ours is at
the very end of the meeting and it's
typically three to five minutes his was
much longer but they built that into the
agenda and it was a master class he
didn't use any notes but he knew
everything he was going to talk about he
gave such good pieces of feedback and
it's clear that this is an individual
who has a lot of experience he's a DTM
distinguished Toastmaster he has a lot
of experience with the Toastmasters
program and that's what it shows you
over time is that the longer you
surround yourself with Toastmasters and
public speakers this becomes a natural
ability and something that is just part
of the way you speak and Salman is a
fantastic speaker I'm not naming all the
individuals who were there at that
meeting so many people did an incredible
job but it was an honor to be a part of
that okay now for the painful part I
mentioned at the beginning of the video
that I actually had to sing during this
meeting I sang A rendition of O Canada
and how that happened the Toastmaster of
the day Aisha fawad
she had this trivia game set up and the
other team got a question right which
meant I had to pick a piece of paper out
of the jar and perform the task and the
task was sing your national anthem and
she had she was very prepared she had O
Canada teed up she started playing the
music and from start to finish I had to
sing O Canada and I am a very terrible
singer and unfortunately somebody got
some footage of me singing and so I'm
not going to show you the full song I'm
not going to put you through that pain
but here is a little clip of me singing
at the buffering Toastmasters Club
meeting
Canada
we stand up
for we almost done don't worry
okay Canada please
[Music]
[Applause]
number four
[Music]
I'm so sorry you had to sit through and
watch that little clip but you see that
I did my best to be a good sport but
overall the point of this video is to
say if you are in the Bahrain area go
check out Bahrain Toastmasters Club
there are other clubs and I'm sure they
do an incredible job as well this is the
one that I happen to attend and I can
only speak about it in particular based
on that but I have nothing but positive
things to say it was an excellent
experience and if this is the first time
you have landed on one of my videos
please consider subscribing a lot of my
content is based on Toastmasters and
public speaking trying to help make you
a public speaker as I am on this journey
with you to also try to become a better
public speaker thank you so much for
taking the time to watch this video I
will catch you on the next one thank you
so much for watching this video if you
are looking for a little bit of coaching
help with your next speech I am
providing one-on-one evaluations my
contact email is in the video
description reach out to me and let's
discuss what that could look like